System Engineering
Objectives:
The concept of a sociotechnical system and technical computer-based system
The concept of emergent system properties
The conceptual design, procurement, development, operation and evolution.
Dependability and security.

1. Complex systems
A system=a purposeful collection of inter-related components working together to achieve some common objective (not isolated, part of a bigger, complex system).
A system may include software, hardware and people.
E.g., Wilderness weather system=part of broader weather recording and forecasting system.

The Sociotechnical systems stack.
Society: Laws, regulation and culture
Organization: Higher level strategic business activities
Business processes
Application system
Communications and data management Middleware
Operating system
Equipment

System Categories
1. Technical computer-based systems: Systems including hardware and software
2. Socio-technical systems: 1+operational processes and people.

Organizational affects process, job, organization.

Socio-technical system characteristics
1. Emergent properties: Properties of the system as a whole. Assessed and measured once the components have been integrated into a system.
E.g., volume, reliability, security, repairability, usability.
Influences on reliability: hardware, software, operator reliability.
Failures are not independent and they propagate from one level to another.
Failure propagation. (operation->software->hardware investigate)
2. Non-deterministic
A deterministic system is one where a given sequence of inputs will always produce the same sequence of outputs.
3. Success Criteria
Complex systems are developed to address wicked problems.
Different stakeholders see the problem in different ways and each has a partial understanding of the issues affecting the system.

Conflicting view of success.

2. Systems Engineering
Conceptual design, procuring, specifying, designing, implementing, validating, deploying and maintaining socio-technical systems.
Services, constraints, ways.

Stages of systems engineering.
Conceptual design: Sets out the purpose, need of the system and the high-level features.
Procurement: Requirements defined, decisions are made and system components are purchased.
Development: System developed.
Operation: System deployed and put into use.

Profession disciplines involved in systems engineering.
Architecture, electrical engineering, electronic engineering, civil engineering, software engineering, mechanical engineering, ergonomics, UI design.

Inter-disciplinary working.
Communication difficulties: Different disciplines use the same terminology to mean different things.

Part 1 Summary
Socio-tech systems include hardware, software, and people and are designed to meet a business goal.
Human and organizational factors have a significant effect.
Emergent properties are the characteristic of the system as a whole and not its component parts.
The fundamental stages of systems engineering: conceptual design, procurement, development and operation.

3. Conceptual Design
Investigate the feasibility of an idea and develop.
Precedes and overlaps with requirements engineering.
Goal: create a high-level system description.

Conceptual design activities
Concept formulation + problem understanding + system proposal development + feasibility study + system structure development= System vision document.

4. System Procurement
Acquiring a system (or systems) to meet some identified organizational need.
Before procurement, decisions about procuring a system, the type of system and the potential system suppliers are made on scope of the system, system budgets and timescales, high-level system requirements.

Decision drivers
The state of other organizational systems
External regulations & competition
Business re-organization
Available budget.

Procurement and development
Some system specification and architectural design is necessary before procurement.
Let a contract for system development.
The specification allow you to buy a commercial off the shelf system.

System procurement processes
Off-the-shelf systems
Configurable systems
Custom systems

Procurement Issues
The detailed rules and regulations force the development of detailed requirements and make agile development difficult.

5. System Development
Usually follows a plan-driven approach because of the need for parallel development of different parts of the system.

[System requirements definition
Three types of requirement
1. Abstract functional requirements
2. System properties
3. Undesirable characteristics
->Should also define overall organizational objectives
[The Architectural design process
1. Partition requirements
2. Identify sub-systems
3. Assign requirements to sub-systems
4. Specify sub-system functionality
5. Define sub-system interfaces
*Requirements and design spiral
[Sub-system engineering
Parallel projects/ Lack of communication / Bureaucratic & slow mechanism.
[System Integration
The process of putting hardware, software and people together.
Should ideally be tackled incrementally so that sub-systems are integrated one at a time.
Interface problems usually found.
[System delivery and deployment
After completion, the system has to be installed in the customer’s environment.
Some issues.
[System operation
Operational processes are the processes involved in using the system for its defined purpose.

6. Error
1. Human error
1. Person approach
2. Systems approach
2. System Evolution
Large systems=long lifetime. Evolution necessary. Inherently costly.
Existing systems which must be maintained are sometimes called legacy systems.

Factors affecting system lifetimes
Investment cost, loss of expertise, replacement cost.

Part 2 Summary
Conceptual design
System procurement covers all of the activities involved in deciding what system to develop, buy, outsource and who should supply that system.
System development/operation/evolution
Human errors are inevitable and systems should include barriers to detect these error before they lead to system failure.
